Quick description of Solution
=============================

Solution is composed of three parts:

  1. artificial neural network (ANN)
  2. stemmer
  3. elementary heuristic algorithm

The ANN weigths are entirely stored inside data.gz. They are fed into solution.js during initialization, via init().
The ANN alone has an evaluation precision of about 60%. The stemmer, which is invoked once for each test() word, trims
and regularizes words before feeding them into the ANN. This improves precision by about 3%. The heuristic algorithm
increases the overall evaluation precision by less than 1%.

### ANN

The ANN was generated over the course of several days by an optimized C++ FANN implementation over 30 million datasets
collected from hola.org/challenges/word_classifier/testcase on supervised learning. The vectorized words occupied
15GB of RAM during training. data.gz contains a custom JSON representation of the ANN, with low precision weigths
(20 bits, 6 decimal digits) due to imposed space restrictions. The custom Javascript implementation of the ANN is
minimalist and is only capable of executing a pre-trained net.

### Stemmer

Both the C++ implementation used for training the net, and the JS counterpart in solution.js, are a slightly modified
Porter algorithm. Both perform the same exact algorithm.

### Heuristic

The heuristic function evaluates a basic set of rules to detect if a test word contains multiple apostrophes and none of them is in the form
"O'" or "'s". It was observed that a significant percentage of invalid English words wouldn't pass this check.

Software
========

All the software used to generate this Solution is included in this package.
solution.min.js is a minimized version of solution.js generated by the yui-compressor.
